The amount you're going to be able to
get done is unbelievable. What used to
take a few seconds is just going to be
like boom boom boom boom.
>> This is Josh Woodward, head of Gemini.
Google just launched Gemini Spark,
[music] an AI agent that works for you
24/7 in the background. That was a
project we started called personal
intelligence. If you're a Gmail user,
use Google Docs, Sheets, Slides,
Calendar, all that stuff just works.
Helping us free up time [music] in our
calendar so we can do things we want to
do either together with our family,
hobbies, and whatnot. So if agents do a
lot of stuff [music] instead of us, is
this officially a new era of work
coming? Let's get into it. Thanks to
HubSpot for sponsoring this video.
Josh, welcome to Silicon Valley Girl.
I'm so excited to finally be chatting
with you.
>> yeah. Congrats on all the success.
You've been with Google for almost 20
years?
>> Well, yeah, 16 and a half, I think.
Yeah, I started as an intern. Crazy.
Okay, so you've seen a lot of Google
I/Os. Can you rank this one in terms of
significance?
>> Yeah, I think this is a big one
for a couple of reasons. One, it's the
first time we're really starting to
shift more into this agentic era. And I
think that'll be a big shift for a lot
of our products. You saw some of it
yesterday, but there's a lot more
cooking we have in Google Labs coming,
too. So that's one. I think the other,
this Gemini Omni model is another one.
It's a very big shift in how we start to
think about any kind of input in and the
output that comes out of it. Yeah.
>> be fun. And then at the end, it was a
bit, you know, got Google I/O is such a
flood of news, but um towards the end,
Demis actually mentioned a couple of our
science products that we're working on.
And I'm very excited about that and
where that's going to go. What was your
most exciting update yesterday?
>> Ooh. Well, I can't wait for people to
play with Gemini Spark. Uh-huh.
>> I think it's going to be fun.
>> It's rolling out this week to testers
and next week to pro Yeah, to the Google
AI Ultra members in the US, and then
we're going to scale it up from there.
You know what was my favorite update?
What?
>> When you were demoing this voice
feature, like you're talking to your
computer, but instead of just
transcribing, it actually went to your
Google Drive, went to your Gmail, Yeah.
found all the necessary information,
pulled it together, and created this
beautiful email with like a table inside
of it and the rest of it. I like this is
nice. This is the next step of voice.
Yeah.
>> Is that rolling out Yeah, that's coming
that'll be in the coming weeks, exactly.
We're playing with it right now. It's so
fun. Um and I think what's amazing to me
the first time I remember it was two
weekends ago we were hacking on this on
the team and they were like, "Do you
think we could get this thing Google
IO?" It's like it's a little tight to
get something in. We snuck it in. So
this feature is 2 weeks old?
>> Yeah, this feature was 2 weekends ago
and it's amazing because you select all
your files, either they could be in
Drive or on your desktop, and then you
just talk to it. And it can go through
and understand what's in the PDF, what's
in the image, and then create it all.
And And then it also enhances the text.
Like I intentionally made a mistake on
stage to like change the date.
>> And it understands, exactly. Yeah. So
this thing is happening now that I
wanted to touch upon. So a lot of people
are using different tools, right? And
we've seen something similar in like I
don't know, Codex, Cloud AI.
>> Yeah, yeah. Uh with these features
rolling out, what would you tell to
people who are thinking if they need to
switch? Like why would they switch to
Gemini? Yeah, yeah. Well, I think with
Gemini you're going to get a few things
and if you're thinking about Gemini
Spark in particular first, it is deeply
integrated in the Google environment and
ecosystem.
>> You don't even need connectors. That's
right. I I've been saying this for many
years, like please That's right. Yeah,
so I think, you know, whether if you're
a Gmail user and use Google Docs,
Sheets, Slides, Calendar, all that stuff
just works. Yeah. And it's very good.
Second thing, we actually have virtual
machines that we can spin up in the
background on Google Cloud. So, I think
where all this is going is you won't
just have one or two tasks. You may have
hundreds of tasks. And you can imagine
we can do that in parallel. And just the
amount you're going to be able to get
done is unbelievable. So, that's two
right up the back. The third I would say
is we're really trying to push the
limits on the types of things that
Spark's going to be able to create for
you. So, what I showed on stage was a
Google Doc or a Google Slide Deck for
our neighborhood block party. But,
imagine this has got Nana Banana. It can
make images. It's got Omni. It can make
videos. It's got Lyric. It can make
songs. And that's the kind of stuff that
no one else has, that sort of generative
media suite. And so, I think the ability
of this thing over time is just going to
be way more versatile. But, we're
starting out it's very early. It's a
beta. There'll be a lot of things when
we add NCP connections in a few weeks,
we'll add agentic payments with Google
Pay and Wallet. I want to know the
lyrics by any chance.
>> good feature request, maybe. Cuz the
thing is as a YouTuber
>> Yeah. I can't really use Gemini to talk
to my analytics cuz it's not connected.
So, I have to either download a CSV file
or use computer agentic features to like
go and take screenshots. Yeah, yeah.
Is there a killer feature that everyone
should try once this rolls out Mhm. so
that they're convinced? Cuz I feel like
a lot of people they're hearing words
agentic, you know, agent running in a
cloud. But, like as a mom, what does
that mean for me? What can I try and do
to be blown away by this?
>> Yeah, yeah. Well, I think just to take
that example maybe um
outside of work as a mom, like you said,
it is so good at any kind of just A lot
of people that we've been doing user
research are like, I have all these
digital chores I have to go do. So, it
might be like helping you remember
things that you might have forgot. It's
helped me remember a lot of deadlines
for kids. Like, you got to return that
library book before the of the school
year. I'm like, how many things am I
supposed to do for both my kids? You
have four. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, that's
that's right. So, anything around that,
I would say also it's very good at at
finding and my wife and I use it this
way for helping us free up time in our
calendar. And so, we can do things we
want to do either together with our
family, hobbies, and whatnot. One of the
things I would say for your work life,
for a lot of people out there, ask it,
"What are the three meetings I should
cancel this week?" It's very good at
that. It's a good prompt. Yes. So,
that's one that's really interesting. I
used it I'm using it more and more. When
I started, I was setting up reoccurring
schedules. And so, one of my favorite
ones right now, we're huge NBA
basketball fans of the Oklahoma City
Thunder, and they're in the playoffs
right now. And so, I just get like all
the news about the team, but it's
writing it to me as if it's like a
die-hard sports fan for the Thunder. So,
there's all kinds of different ways, but
I think anything around like, "Help me
not forget something." Yeah. "Help me
free up time. Help me follow an interest
I'm really passionate about." It's
excellent in all that stuff.
>> Yeah. And you also released Docs live
yesterday, when you can talk to your
Google Doc. Yeah.
>> And you know what it got me thinking?
Are we going to slowly moving to
voice-first apps? Do you notice that
internally? Cuz I I started talking to
my computer all the time. Now, you're
releasing this feature, which which not
only allows you to transcribe what
you're saying, but like have some smart
thinking behind the scenes? Yeah, yeah.
Do you think this shift is happening
now, when we're using more voice? I
think so. We see it in our Gemini usage
stats as well. There's certain
>> you have any numbers? Well, not to share
here, but I will say that like, there
are certain countries now where it's
tipped, and voice has become just a
dominant way Yeah, it's natural, right?
It's natural. It's faster. It's also
Now, we're at a point where you can kind
of ramble, and the model can clean it up
for you. We've also now got it where the
model's hooked in that can do all the
tool calling. It can generate the
images. So, it's And then the stuff I
showed yesterday with the dialects is
really fun. Oh, yeah.
>> can have it sort of talk in any number
of different ways. So, all that stuff is
coming, you know, in the next We're
talking weeks here. This is not far out.
Talk to me about the shift that's
happening. So, what I'm noticing as a
user is that a lot of companies were
optimizing for software engineering.
Like, let's use AI to speed up our
software engineers. I'm seeing this huge
shift to knowledge workers. Like, let's
now help knowledge workers to experience
the same magic that it's AI has done to
software engineering.
Is that the priority at Google right
now? Yeah, there's big focus on it. And
I think what's interesting is kind of
taking the lessons we've learned over
the last few months and quarters with
coding and applying some of that to
knowledge work. One of the early
projects I worked on on all this, which
is still going a lot of snow notebook
LM. Oh, yeah, my favorite.
Love love love love love love love love.
Whenever I'm prepping for like a
scientific podcast, I go to notebook LM,
upload all the articles they send me,
like listen to a podcast about this.
And I think that was one of the first
ones we realized, if you can make it
really easy for people to assemble all
that context, like all those papers in
your case, and then either hit a button
it's a podcast, hit a button it's a
slide deck, it's a mind map, whatever
you want. That was kind of our first
like glimpse into where this is all
going. And I think like where notebook's
going to go, and anything you'll see it
in Gemini and other stuff, is like that
ability to just describe or talk about
what you want. Yeah. Like, I need to
understand this, go grab all these
things, make this this and this, and
it's just going to happen. And so, I
think for knowledge workers it's very
exciting, but also it's it is a
different shift because you're almost
going to a point where you're
orchestrating much more about the
outcome of the deliverable you want
instead of the how to get there in some
cases.
>> Exactly. so we on the team talk about it
as you're moving from doing to
directing. Exactly. Everybody becomes a
manager. That's right. Yeah, we've
always thought on the team, you know, in
companies like Google you would do like
manager days or leadership days you
would do manager training and that would
only be for the people managers. So it's
a certain percentage of your whole team.
No. That we're imagining we may need
that for everybody because you may be
managing these different sort of like
agents and others. So yeah. And you're
launching so many products that are
helping people do that.
>> Yeah, we're trying to. What Josh just
said about how people are starting to
use AI for decisions is actually a much
bigger shift. For years, if you ran any
kind of business, a startup, a SaaS
product, an e-commerce brand, even a
personal brand, you optimized for Google
search. You wrote blog posts, chased
rankings, played the whole SEO game. But
now people ask Gemini, ChatGPT, or
Perplexity, "What's the best sushi
restaurant near me? Can you recommend a
podcast?
track of all my customers?" And whatever
answer the AI gives, that's what drives
the decision. The problem is most
founders have no idea how to make their
brand show up in those answers, and we
noticed that, too. So a couple months
ago, we saw that our podcast was doing
really well on YouTube, getting hundreds
and thousands of views, but was almost
invisible inside AI answers. So we
started digging into that, and after
trying a few things that didn't work, we
realized it actually comes down to small
details. What you write in your
descriptions, how your content is
written, even small things like your
text bio. Once we fixed that, we finally
started showing up. It's still a work in
progress, but it's a really important
long-term investment. That's why I was
excited when I saw a new tool called
HubSpot AEO. It's a tool that shows you
exactly how your brand appears across
ChatGPT, Gemini, and Perplexity. Your
visibility score, how you compare to
competitors, and specific
recommendations for what you can
actually do about it. Where most tools
just give you a score, HubSpot AEO gives
you a plan. What to fix, what to write,
and what to post. You don't need an
agency, you don't need expensive
consultants, or technical expertise. You
just see where you stand and what to do
next. It's a $50 a month, but you can
try for free for 28 days first with
access to 25 prompts. The link is in the
description. Thanks to HubSpot for
sponsoring this video. Now, back to the
interview with Josh. But, for the past
few years, I was sad to hear that people
were saying like Google is kind of
losing this AI race because people are
using like all the other tools, you
know, ChatGPT was the first with the
LLMs and like when it comes to search.
>> Yeah. How do you see the situation
changing now? Yeah, well, I mean, it's
very dynamic. It's a very fast-moving,
as you know. You have people on your
show, too. I think first off, it's fun.
It I think competition, a lot of us on
the team we like that because you get
this it sharpens you. You know what I
mean? So, that's one I would say. Um the
other thing I would say though is that
there's a lot of things Google has, and
in some cases has had for years. And
what's fun for someone like me who's
been around here a while is is like how
do you kind of put these together in new
and interesting ways? And so, you know,
we talked earlier about you don't have
to use connectors. That was a project we
started called personal intelligence.
And it started from this idea, what if
you could just tap one button and all
your stuff could be connected? And it
wouldn't mean that everybody wants to do
it. We made it opt-in, so it's like you
can choose. But, for a lot of people,
they're like, Yes, I want that. Yeah.
>> And so, I feel like it's really fun cuz
we're in this stage where we're getting
to reimagine not only kind of existing
products, but combine them in new ways
to make new products. And the that's
just super fun we get to do. Yeah. And
also like fun fun fact, my dad started
using AI like a few months ago when he
came here was visiting. And he he does
like he teaches MBA. So, he needed to do
some like table on weights of different
like ex- experts, etc. Yeah. So, I asked
Chat GPT, he was like, "Okay." We asked
Claude, he needed some follow-up
questions, but he was happy with the
result. We asked Gemini,
first prompt in, he was so happy. Oh,
nice. Great.
>> I had to give him a phone that's powered
by Gemini, so he can run all of these
things. And like this this is what makes
me sad, right? It's still like if we
look at B2B usage and traffic is leading
it.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> What would you say will make you will
make this shift?
>> Yeah. Well, I think there's a few
things. I think one, the core model, a
lot of the early adopters choose
wherever that is. And you can even look
back over the last like 6 months how
people have jumped from different models
to different models, right?
>> every week. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So,
there's a lot of that. Now, that's
happening kind of at the edge, the
really early adopters. I think for most
people in the world, they hear AI and it
means all kinds of things.
>> Mhm. For some it may be excitement, like
more for you and me. For others it may
mean fear, uncertainty, or what is this
thing? And so, I think how we try to
think about it is like almost the if I
almost think of a tagline, it would be
like, "Look what Jim and I can do for
you." Mhm. Because it's not about look
what AI can do for you, it's about for
your life, Yeah. your problems, your
daily annoyances, the things that make
you grumpy, how's it going to help?
And I think that's how we're trying to
think about all these features as like
and it may be start very small like for
your dad, that one thing may be like,
"Woah, that leads to another thing and
another thing." Yeah. So, we're trying
to build out these very almost bite-size
things that you'll be able to turn to
your dad or I could turn to a friend and
say, "Hey, look what this can do for
you." Yeah.
>> kind of how we're imagining. So, it over
the years you kind of learn sometimes it
sometimes you get lucky and something
goes incredibly viral on one thing, but
often it's this accumulation of small
things that add up
>> Exactly.
>> people to be like, "Oh, that thing, I
use it for this." Yeah, I use for this,
I use for that, maybe I should really
use it. That's right. Do you think
Gemini's personality is important? Cuz
we know AIs have their different
personality. How would you describe
Gemini's personality? Oh, that's a great
question. I mean, hopefully it's
helpful. Hopefully it's something that
you can trust. It's like comes across.
We see this in the user research. People
think it's it's factual. It's accurate.
It's precise. Not not too agreeable.
Yeah, that's right. We also hope that
it's concise. It doesn't ramble on and
on. It gets to the point.
We also want it to be kind of warm, sort
of friendly, but not too friendly. Do
you know what I mean? And I think one of
the things we've also been exploring is
ways we can let people steer the
personality. There's maybe something
that comes out of the box by default.
But then some people do want it. In
certain cases, we'll see this where
they'll be like, "Be really harsh on my
ideas." Like throw cold water on
everything. And so we want the model to
have some degree of steerability, too.
But I do think that for us, we don't
think of it though as
you know, a friend or something you're
trying to fall in love with or anything
like that. It's it's a tool. And it's
something that again, at the end of the
day, hopefully it's something that's
useful and helpful.
Do you have any tips for someone who's
just starting using Gemini? And you
mentioned some people ask it to disagree
with everything. Like
Is there anything that you have
personally? Cuz for example, I have this
MD file called personal constitution.
Yes. It talks about all my principles.
So I would upload it to every AI that
I'm using so it learns my principles or
my tone of voice or like a personal
dossier cuz I use AI to write a lot of
text. Yeah. I wanted it to come up with
that. Do you have like your own personal
productivity setup that you would
recommend to everyone? Oh, that's
interesting. Yours sounds good, by the
way. Yeah, I love it cuz then AI really
becomes your strategic partner versus
just That would Okay, that's what I was
going to say. The biggest shift I feel
like years ago I made was instead of
just going to it one-off, actually
trying to build that context. Like you
use MD files, it sounds like. How do you
create this context? Like how do you
store it? Yeah, so I mean I have certain
files like you've got now like something
like Gemini spark. These are all now
skills that are in there. I've turned on
personal intelligence so it knows kind
of my backstory of all my Gmail and
calendar and drive. Um the other thing I
do is it's very good if you ask it. So
one thing I try to do pretty regularly
is I'll ask it, what are the things I'm
doing that I should no longer be doing?
Yeah. Or what are the patterns you see
me using in Gemini that I should just
not do or I can make better. And so I
almost use it as a mirror in that way to
sort of reflect. Um that's interesting.
I've also I've got tons of notebooks
which now I'll sync across Gemini too
which are awesome. So I've got ones
where's like everything I've ever
written that I feel like is like my best
writing. Not for the style necessarily,
although it takes on some of that, but
also just the ideas. I take I read a lot
of books and
just going back on that. So when you
have all your newsletters inside a
notebook Yeah. and you ask Gemini a
question, it can reference those
newsletters cuz it's one whole
ecosystem.
>> Do you have to specifically point it out
like go to my notebook or it knows?
Yeah, usually today how it works is you
can just hit the plus icon and just add
that notebook to your prompt or if you
go into the notebook itself, it takes
all that context automatically. I wonder
if it's I'm just thinking from the user
perspective, is it's too much context
cuz it has access to Gmail, you know,
calendar, notebook.
Is there like do you need to kind of
narrow it down and say only take these
things like what would you say? Yeah,
we're actually experimenting with this
right now. So in a product like notebook
LM, as you know, you can change which
sources it uses to sort of shape the
answer. Um but I don't know if the UI
paradigms for all this are really have
settled yet because I think that's one
of the things we're finding too is these
models love context but then finding the
right context
>> Finding the right context, not eating
all the tokens while
>> [laughter]
>> cuz I've been using Gmail since 2015,
right?
>> Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And we
all get too many emails. That's right.
But I think what you'll find model over
model and even this three-point flash
model way better at these things. We
have we put it through all these tests.
Can it retrieve the right stuff? Can it
synthesize the right stuff? It's very
good at this and I think that'll just
keep getting better, too. Okay, so you
would recommend so you would your best
newsletters? Yeah, that's what I do. I I
put that in. I have another one where I
read a lot. So any of the notes or
books, you know, I take lots of notes. I
use Readwise for Kindle highlights. I
sync all that. So you can almost imagine
my own collection of like experts that
have quotes, things that have shaped how
I think. That's a whole other area I put
in as well.
Okay, so it's I I feel like we live in
an era when everyone has to organize
their personal contacts. Yeah.
>> Because it's so important to launch your
agents cuz they have to have a proper
base on what they're acting.
>> If you and I were having coffee after
this episode, I'd certainly pull out my
phone and say, "Look what I tried this
week. It changed how my team works."
This is what I do all the time. To share
these kinds of things that don't fit
into the podcast, I started my own
newsletter. Every week, I write about AI
tools, strategies, and experiments I'm
running in my own business with real
numbers, real results, templates that
you can use, and also honest mistakes.
If you want to be in the loop, the link
is waiting for you in the description.
Okay, let's talk about AGI. Yeah. I've
heard that word so many times.
>> Yes, yes. Yesterday on stage and I'm
like, "Oh." Cuz last year I remember
Demis talking with Sergey here at Google
I/O. Yeah, yeah. And they were like kind
of predicting like maybe in 5 years.
Yesterday Demis like, "We made another
step towards AGI with this model." Yeah.
What is AGI for me? Like for a normal
person, what does that mean? Yeah, and
then at this point it's been thrown
around so much it has lost I think a lot
of its meaning in some ways. I To be
honest with you, I don't think about it
all the time all that much. There's a
spectrum of people who are talk about it
every time they get on a stage. I'm
probably more on the other side of it. I
think at some level it's probably like,
is there an app or some sort of
experience software you can
probably talk to that is able to kind of
answer almost like superhuman questions
for you. And I try to think always the
best products make you feel something.
Yeah.
>> And so to me, I think less about how
many years away and things are, but more
probably what are the feelings or the
experience you would get interacting
with something that's that good. And it
probably would feel something like man,
it's just like saves me so much time.
Mhm. It's like mental release. I'm like
I don't know that. Or even that I
imagine I'm hoping it'll be fun. Like
it'll be able to kind of bring up things
and insights and connect dots that you
wouldn't otherwise do. So, I tend to
think of it a little bit more that way,
I guess. From like a product perspective
as opposed to some of these maybe bigger
thoughts and timelines and things and
specific definitions. How how do you
think it's going to change our workflow?
Because you're releasing so many
features for workflows.
Does will the workflow exist at all if
AI is capable of something like that?
>> Yeah. I happen to think it still will
actually, cuz I think there's still
going to be a huge premium. And I'm
actually sympathetic to the argument
actually things like human judgment,
human taste, these things are actually
going to become more valuable than they
have been even in today or in the past.
>> But then also AI can learn your taste.
This is what I'm trying to do within my
team right now.
>> Yeah, yeah. Teach AI my taste. So, we're
collecting all my feedback that I'm
giving to my team. And like let's let's
teach AI that so it can help me make
decisions.
>> Yeah, yeah. I think that may still
happen and it probably will. We do
things similar where you can almost
simulate like a meeting before the
meeting ever happens and you can almost
like anticipate the feedback you'll get.
Maybe that's what you're doing on your
team. The other thing I I say is I do
think on the workflows point, we are
seeing like areas where
AI today can get you maybe to like a
really good first draft. And maybe let's
assume it'll get you to a second, third,
or fourth draft. It'll get better. But
there's still something about creating,
and I'm finding in small teams of
people, is just so fun. And it's hard to
imagine, I don't know, I wouldn't want
to give that up. And you could imagine
there will be like single person giant
companies or whatever, all the
predictions. But to me it's like life is
about the memories and the people you're
doing it with, too. And so it feels like
hopefully we're going to put a lot of
power tools on the table. And let small
groups of people just create amazing
stuff.
>> Yeah. What would you say to someone
who's starting their career now and
worried about AI? Mhm. I mean, uh the
the advice I continue to try to even
give myself is just every week
be on the edge of these tools and try to
figure out like do do build an intuition
for what they're really good at and what
they're not good at. And then the
important thing is
what's like almost possible. Because and
another maybe rev or two of the models,
that may become possible. So I think
it's that's probably it's a new skill
set. I think there's a lot of soft
skills and maybe like EQ around some of
this, too, is like how to deal with
uncertainty, how to invent things, how
to adapt to things. So there's a whole
whole set of things even beyond just the
the core tool usage, I would say.
>> Totally. Yeah. Um can we learn some of
your culture as well? Cuz you're you're
rolling out so many products. Like as
you mentioned, this voice feature, you
coded it like 2 weeks ago and it was on
stage yesterday.
>> Yeah. How are you able to manage all of
that let alone like having four kids? I
can't imagine that. [laughter]
Is there a principle? Is there a life
hack? Oh, I wish there was a life hack.
If you find it, let [laughter] me know.
I mean, um
it's I'd say it's a lot of things. I
mean, part of it I think just as an
individual, I try to think about what
are the things in life that I really
want to prioritize. And some of them are
at work, but a lot of them are outside
work. I mean, life's way more than just
work, right? So, I think that's just
like as a personal thing. I think at
work, I think it's a lot about small
teams with these tools can do remarkable
things. And so, there's been a big
shift. A lot of our Google Labs
projects, they start with like five, six
people maybe, and you kind of are
hunting for like what's an interesting
problem to solve that will really make a
difference in a certain set of people's
lives. And then you kind of just let
them cook. Yeah. And we try to minimize
all the reviews and all the stuff you
can imagine. And I think that's to me
the best thing people say is like, "Oh,
this is like I'm empowered. We built
this thing in two weekends." Do you know
what I mean? To me, that's like we're
hitting the mark. And then what the
other part of this is you'll build a lot
of stuff. Some of it maybe you get
lucky, it becomes an AI studio or
Notebook LM or Google Flow.
A lot of it though doesn't work.
>> What's the percentage [laughter]
of the things that don't work?
>> wish I would know. I mean, what I will
say is it usually takes us three, four,
five times on an idea before we realize
that's it or you just ditch it. Yeah.
What's the metric that you're looking
for?
>> You know, it's funny. We don't look as
much at like retention or dashboards. I
always kind of tell the teams, and I try
to go with them on a lot of these, you
see it in people's eyes. When they use
the thing, do their eyes light up? Or do
they like recoil?
>> it? [laughter] If you're an
entrepreneur launching something, how do
you track it? Like you sit down with a
customer and just watch them using it?
>> Go to the coffee shops, go to the
student unions, go out in the real
world. Really, I'm always trying to keep
our teams as little as time possible in
conference rooms thinking and theorizing
about stuff. It's like, "Take it out
here. Go talk to those two guys. See
what they say. Yeah. Um and you that's
when you really know how far off you are
from your sort of lofty concepts to like
reality. That's That's fascinating. And
so and then you just see people's faces
light up and this is how you know you're
going to continue working on it.
>> Yeah, you're trying to develop an
intuition of like cuz the biggest thing
is you make something no one wants.
That's the biggest risk. And so you're
trying to find like did that strike a
nerve with her or with him? And like is
this How do you quantify that? Cuz
you're in a larger organization also
like how do you just Exactly. go out to
people and say [laughter] like oh I saw
their eyes light up we're going to put
like a billion in Yeah, yeah. Well, you
take it step by step. You don't go from
like zero to a billion, but I do think
it is it's very countercultural to a
very data-driven place like a Google or
other big tech companies or even
startups, right? You're looking for like
what's that? Yeah. And we'll get to
that, but it's kind of that early stage.
One of the biggest things is doing like
all big things start small.
And we're very lucky at a place like
Google. You saw Sundar show that slide
with all these huge products with a
billion users and things, but actually
all those things originally started
going to coffee shops or showing it to
your friends and seeing like is this
something people are going to like? And
that's how Notebook LM started. That's
how Flow started. That's how AI Studio
started. So now you know they've got
millions and millions of people, but it
all kind of starts people forget that it
starts in the trenches. Starts very
small. And then you'll get to what are
our dials? What's our D7 retention?
What's our ARR? All that stuff comes,
but you got to get out of the first
phase which is like does anyone even
care about what you're working on? What
would you say to an entrepreneur who
who's working right now building these
ideas? Five times he tried, nothing's
working. What's the mindset they should
be adopting? Yeah, that's always the
hardest part we have to is like you
believe in your idea. You're on your
third or fourth or fifth iteration.
Um
I think sometimes uh you know,
sometimes the cash just runs out and
that's when you know.
In our case, sometimes what I've noticed
is the core team, those like four, five,
six people, they often know before I do
if there's anything here. And so,
sometimes you just have to face that
moment. I also like to be when we're
doing this with our teams like so clear
of like, all right, well, let's try it.
We have one more shot. And everyone kind
of gives it like one more shot. It's a
lot like if you're playing on a sports
team or something. You know, you kind of
give put it all out on the field and you
kind of see if it works or not.
>> Yeah, sometimes you just worry like if I
text
take another step, then it's going to
work and you're like, I don't know when
to stop.
>> you know, it's funny, sometimes I know
we've stopped things too early.
Sometimes they go too long. I think
that's the other thing I try to remind
the teams is like, it's a lot more art
than science at that stage. It's a lot
more gut and sort of like feel. Yeah.
What's the next big AI trend you're
predicting?
>> Ooh, that's good. Well, you
>> Something that you're seeing maybe.
Yeah, I mean, you hit on one. I'll think
if there's others, too. But I was
spending a couple of minutes well, on
voice. Oh, voice. Okay.
>> we are on the cusp of like a big shift
to voice.
Um so, that one immediately comes to
mind. The other one I am not sure people
have fully internalized, even at Google,
is how fast these models are going to
get and how quickly. So, 3.5 flashes
already way faster than what we had
before. But even the demo we showed,
Sundar showed with the dinosaur, the
dino game, Yeah. 1,500 tokens per
second. This is coming. This is not
theoretical. Like, we have this running
at Google internally right now. And when
you can stream that fast, it changes
everything. We've seen that over time
with search. Every time we make a
feature faster, more people use it. So,
speed's a feature and I think that's one
part of these models that's like just
around the corner that's going to be
incredible. Okay, so we're we're going
to be iterating on so many ideas, I
guess, very fast. Well,
>> that's how it's going to happen. Is your
what used to take like send wait a few
seconds is just going to be like boom
boom boom boom. And that'll be amazing
for all the image video audio stuff.
It'll also be amazing for anything with
agents or anything with multi-steps
because it'll just compress.
>> Yeah. And so And in terms of research
accelerating that's what I'm Yeah, then
you apply that to something like our
science tools or other things. You got
all this discovery that's just waiting
to happen. Uh So, I'm very excited about
that. I think that'll be fun. Yeah. My
last question is your daughters are 5 6
years old.
>> Yeah, yeah. Mine are 5 and 5 and 6.
>> Yeah, yeah. Uh she's almost 5. Yeah.
What do you think their future's going
to look like? Oh, it's so hard to
imagine, right now.
>> going to be totally different? Or do you
ever think it's just going to be the
same things will happen in a different
way, but it's Yeah, I mean it's
interesting cuz I think in some ways
human nature is remarkably resilient,
right? For its Yeah, it's the falling in
love and devices. Exactly. So, some of
that I predict will be the same.
But I do think like our kind of almost
human computer interaction feels like it
will be way different. Mhm. And I don't
know. You talk to your parents. You
mentioned your dad earlier. I think
about my parents or my wife's and then
it's like
you hear them talk about when they were
in the workforce and suddenly like
spreadsheets showed up. And you know,
for us it's like oh yeah, of course we
worked with it's like no big deal. It
was like
I wonder if they'll be feelings like
that where uh like our our girls will be
like yeah, of course you just talk to
this thing and it does all this magic
and it's like done in like 200
milliseconds. Yeah.
So, I I do wonder. I mean you sit in a
Waymo today and you think about I can't
believe I'm in this car
>> god. driving on the highway. And so I
think there'll be many of these shifts.
I'm very excited though for them you
know, uh
to to able what it's going to do for
what they can about and explore.
>> you're trying to instill in them?
>> I think for them I'm trying to teach
them a lot about like you can both
create anything you can think of,
but you can also if something doesn't
make sense to you, just tell it to
describe it in something you're really
interested in. One of our girls is so
into soccer right now. She can't wait
for the World Cup. And so there's a lot
of like
lessons from even like kindergarten
where we're just kind of translating it
into like oh well what if Ronaldo was
doing it this way or what you know what
I mean? And like that's the kind of
stuff that it just feels like it'll be
like at their fingertips. It's pretty
fun to think about.
>> Fascinating.
>> Yeah, yeah. Thank you so much Josh. It
was amazing. I'm looking forward to all
of the updates from you cuz whenever you
release something that means I'm using
it in my workflow cuz I love I love what
you're building.
>> Well, thank you and keep the feedback
coming. We'll follow up on your feedback
requests. Oh, thank you so [laughter]
much. Thank you. All right, thanks.